Create Blog “2019-10-10-event-store-packages-for-amazon-linux-2” (#85)
EventStore/eventstore.org: _posts/2019-10-10-event-store-packages-for-amazon-linux-2.md

---
layout: blog-post
title: Event Store packages for Amazon Linux 2
author: Arwin Neil Baichoo
---
# Event Store packages for Amazon Linux 2

Event Store Commercial package for Amazon Linux 2 AMI is now available!

#### Changes moving from Amazon Linux 1 to Amazon Linux 2 Packages
---

#### Phasing out support for AWS Auto Scaling groups 

> Running Event Store as in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups is no more a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (AGS) is no longer a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances
```

> Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (AGS) is no longer a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (ASG) is no longer a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances
```

> Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (AGS) is no longer a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (AGS) is no longer a recommended practice because ASG can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances
```

> Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (ASG) is no longer a recommended practice because AGS can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running Event Store in AWS EC2 Auto Scaling groups (ASG) is no longer a recommended practice because ASG can end up simultaneously or near simultaneously deleting all instances
```

> To learn more about running Event Store clusters, click [here](https://eventstore.org/docs/server/cluster-with-manager-nodes/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about running Event Store clusters, [read this guide](https://eventstore.org/docs/server/cluster-with-manager-nodes/index.html).
```

#### Systemd instead of System V init system

> As of Amazon Linux 2, [System V init has been replaced with systemd service and systems manager](https://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-2/release-notes/). Event Store is now started using `systemctl` instead of `initctl` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Amazon Linux version 2, [System V init has been replaced with systemd service and systems manager](https://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-2/release-notes/). Event Store is now started using `systemctl` instead of `initctl` 
```

- Enable Event Store on Startup
```
systemctl enable eventstore
```

- Start Event Store
```
systemctl start eventstore
```

#### Event Store not exposed on external IP by default

> Event Store is does not run on external IP by default anymore. Additional configuration is needed to access Event Store on public IP & DNS after opening ports EC2 Security Groups as follows :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event Store does not run on an external IP by default anymore. Additional configuration is needed to access Event Store on public IP & DNS after opening ports in EC2 Security Groups as follows :
```

```
IntIp: <Private IP>
ExtIp: <Private IP>
IntHttpPort: 2112
ExtHttpPort: 2113
IntTcpPort: 1112
ExtTcpPort: 1113
IntHttpPrefixes: http://*:2112/
ExtHttpPrefixes: http://*:2113/
AddInterfacePrefixes: false
DiscoverViaDns: false
```

> Private IP can be fetched using an [Instance Metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html) query for scripting this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Private IP can be fetched using an [Instance Metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html) query for scripting this process.
```
